[MUSIC]
Hi, everybody.
I'm Susan Murphy.
I'm at Harvard University,.
I'm joined in statistics and
in computer science.
And what I do is, I work in
mobile health and, in particular,
I work on how we can use reinforcement
learning in mobile health.
And on the slide, in front of you,
you can see all the different kinds of
studies that we've been involved in.
Many of the studies involve addictions.
Lot of them involve adolescents,
and so on.
So what will help?
What do we want to do?
What we want to do is, we want to help
people who are struggling with a problem.
Often, these are chronic illnesses like
someone who's struggled with addiction and
how are they going to stay clean.
Might be someone who's struggling
with depression, so on.
So long term support to someone.
We also want to be able
to test causal inference.
So we really want to understand, is this
treatment an action in the case of RL?
Does it really impact that person or not?
>> [COUGH]
>> Also, in Mobile Health we think
about how we can continually learn,
we can continually experiment, so
that we can always improve that the mobile
health application for each person.
That's what this slide is talking about.
So what's the basic setup?
So for any given user,
they can receive a whole variety
of interventions that is actions.
I listed some on the slide.
You see reminders,
maybe reminders to take your medication,
reminders to practice certain
types of exercise, and so on.
Suggestions about what
you can do in your life.
How you can link you up with
someone else has been through
similar problems, and so on.
And this can happen repeatedly over time.
After each time we deliver
a different type of
treatment action, we observe a reward.
So the reward could be, for example,
total step count over the next 30 minutes
if I'm trying to help you be more active.
Could be how long it is until you become
stressed again if I'm trying to that was
trying to help you manage your stress.
On the next slide, I'm going to show
you a study that just finished.
And this study,
our goal was to help people be
more active in answering questions
about their stress and loneliness.
And this study recruited young adults,
adolescents and
college students aged, not always
college students, who were in trouble.
They were recruited at our emergency room
because they had been drinking too much.
And the idea was,
if we can learn about what
their feelings of loneliness are,
how depressed they are.
Then we can develop an app
which helps them manage that.
So all the actions in this
RL problem have to do with,
how do we give you reinforcements so
that you will stay engaged and
answer our questions?
You can see we had a gamified interface.
It was an aquarium.
And as you answer questions,
you built your aquarium became more and
more rich and you also could level up to
higher levels in the aquarium environment.
But I was mostly interested in,
how do we provide rewards to you?
If you answer questions,
that's the top line in this diagram,
what kinds of rewards means gifts,
will help you be more engaged so
you'll answer our questions tomorrow.
I was also interested in,
if we give you a gift, a present,
today, are you more likely to
answer our questions this evening?
So the whole goal of this study
is to find good policies for
how we keep people engaged in
answering questions about their life.
So what are we doing now?
We're using these kinds
of studies to initialize
reinforcement learning
algorithms on in mobile health.
And the idea here, is that the
reinforcement learning algorithm should
personalize the app to each user from
from our perspective years in mind.
This is the same as learning
an optimal policy for each user.
In my lab, we mainly use
Bayesian Reinforcement learning.
I don't think you've learned about
But the main tool for
us, one of the main advantages of
Bayesian Reinforcement learning,
is the way it updates information
on an individual user over time.
And also, it selects actions that each
time in a random way stochastically.
And this helps us learn from the data
after the study is over as well.
So what are the challenges to
reinforcement learning when you try to use
it in my setting, that is,
in Mobile Health?
Well, one of the issues is,
if you've ever downloaded an app,
you know exactly what I'm talking about.
It could get really aggravating
when that app notifies you a lot.
So normally, apps have a lot of
potential to help you in the moment.
So positive effects on the immediate
rewards, but negative delayed effects.
This is the classical setting for
Reinforcement Learning.
Some of the things we have
to figure out how to do,
are how to approximate the value
function so that we can learn fast yet
not make mistakes in choosing actions.
If we always have many users,
they're all very different.
Each person is different.
But how can we use one user's
data to personalize, or
find, or determine a good policy for
each particular user?
This is a big challenge
we're working on now.
Also, after a study is over, we always
want to conduct causal inference.
That is, we want to help
scientists learn more about
why people enact certain behaviors.
Why do people relapse to drug use?
Why did they relapse to smoking?
These are causal inference questions.
How can the treatment help them so
that they don't relapse?
So we want to use this data to do this.
And even though the data collected be
a reinforcement learning algorithm,
we want to use the data for that.
We have to figure out how.
And then, how can we use data from
the current study for future users so
that they will be able to benefit from
what we learn from the current study?
Okay, I want to show you,
this is my last slide and
I want to show you one more study.
This study is pretty cool.
It's almost over.
And in this study,
each person is trying to quit smoking.
The study starts on the day they
decide they are going to quit.
And they're wearing a whole
variety of wearables.
And they go through their whole life and
all this sensor data streaming in.
And the sensor data's used to form
a whole variety of predictions.
And one prediction,
in particular, is whether or
not they're currently
physiologically stressed.
And we're using algorithms to test whether
or not, if you're currently stressed,
we should provide a reminder to
practice stress management exercises.
Of course, the long term goal is to
find optimal policy for each user.
Thanks, good luck on your class, bye.